CarND-Capstone/README.md, before:

This is the project repo for the final project of the Udacity Self-Driving Car Nanodegree: Programming a Real Self-Driving Car. For more information about the project, see the project introduction [here](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/6047fe34-d93c-4f50-8336-b70ef10cb4b2/modules/e1a23b06-329a-4684-a717-ad476f0d8dff/lessons/462c933d-9f24-42d3-8bdc-a08a5fc866e4/concepts/5ab4b122-83e6-436d-850f-9f4d26627fd9).

### Traffic Light Detection

We used the following approach for Traffic Light Detection:
1. Download and install [Darknet](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/).
2. Download pre-trained YOLOv3 tiny model [weights](https://pjreddie.com/media/files/yolov3-tiny.weights) and [config](https://github.com/pjreddie/darknet/blob/master/cfg/yolov3-tiny.cfg).
3. YOLO detects 80 classes by default. Follow instructions [here](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet#how-to-train-to-detect-your-custom-objects) to edit config file, create classes file (traffic_lights-obj.names), metadata file (traffic_lights.data) to adapt them to our need of detecting 3 classes (red, yello, green lights).
4. Collect training image data from simulator and actual test track by installing and using ROS package `image_view`, as follows:

`apt-get install -y ros-kinetic-image-view`

`rosrun image_view image_saver image:=/image_color`

and

`rosbag play -l ../data/traffic_light_training.bag`

`rosrun image_view image_saver image:=/image_raw _filename_format:="tlt%04i.%s" _sec_per_frame:=0.2`

5. Select training images - roughly equal number of red, yellow, green, and unknown/no light scenarios, and label them using a labeling tool. We used [labelImg](https://github.com/tzutalin/labelImg).
6. Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet#how-to-train-tiny-yolo-to-detect-your-custom-objects) to start training a classifier for traffic light detection.
7. Stop training when the average loss (error) is less than 0.5. Save the weights file, e.g. `traffic_lights-simulator.weights`
8. Convert the resulting YOLO v3 weights to Keras HDF5 format using a YOLO v3 Keras conversion and implementation tool. We used [keras-yolo3](https://github.com/qqwweee/keras-yolo3), as follows:

`pip install configparser`

`cd /capstone/ros/src/tl_detector/light_classification/yolo3/train`

e.g. converting YOLOv3 weights for simulator images to Keras HDF5 format:

`python convert.py traffic_lights-tiny.cfg ../traffic_lights-simulator.weights ../traffic_lights_weights-simulator.h5`

`rm ../traffic_lights-simulator.weights`

9. Update tl_classifier.py to use the weights along with the keras-yolo3 API to predict traffic lights and their states. Ensure appropriate weights file is used for simulator vs. site case.

## Installation

Please use **one** of the two installation options, either native **or** docker installation.

### Native Installation

* Be sure that your workstation is running Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial Xerus or Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahir. [Ubuntu downloads can be found here](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop).
* If using a Virtual Machine to install Ubuntu, use the following configuration as minimum:
  * 2 CPU
  * 2 GB system memory
  * 25 GB of free hard drive space

  The Udacity provided virtual machine has ROS and Dataspeed DBW already installed, so you can skip the next two steps if you are using this.

* Follow these instructions to install ROS
  * [ROS Kinetic](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation/Ubuntu) if you have Ubuntu 16.04.
  * [ROS Indigo](http://wiki.ros.org/indigo/Installation/Ubuntu) if you have Ubuntu 14.04.
* [Dataspeed DBW](https://bitbucket.org/DataspeedInc/dbw_mkz_ros)
  * Use this option to install the SDK on a workstation that already has ROS installed: [One Line SDK Install (binary)](https://bitbucket.org/DataspeedInc/dbw_mkz_ros/src/81e63fcc335d7b64139d7482017d6a97b405e250/ROS_SETUP.md?fileviewer=file-view-default)
* Download the [Udacity Simulator](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Capstone/releases).

### Docker Installation
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/)

Build the docker container
```bash
docker build . -t capstone
```

Run the docker file
```bash
docker run -p 4567:4567 -v $PWD:/capstone -v /tmp/log:/root/.ros/ --rm -it capstone
```

### Port Forwarding
To set up port forwarding, please refer to the [instructions from term 2](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/0949fca6-b379-42af-a919-ee50aa304e6a/lessons/f758c44c-5e40-4e01-93b5-1a82aa4e044f/concepts/16cf4a78-4fc7-49e1-8621-3450ca938b77)

### Usage

1. Clone the project repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Capstone.git
```

2. Install python dependencies
```bash
cd CarND-Capstone
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Make and run styx
```bash
cd ros
catkin_make
source devel/setup.sh
roslaunch launch/styx.launch
```
4. Run the simulator

### Real world testing
1. Download [training bag](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-selfdrivingcar/traffic_light_bag_file.zip) that was recorded on the Udacity self-driving car.
2. Unzip the file
```bash
unzip traffic_light_bag_file.zip
```
3. Play the bag file
```bash
rosbag play -l traffic_light_bag_file/traffic_light_training.bag
```
4. Launch your project in site mode
```bash
cd CarND-Capstone/ros
roslaunch launch/site.launch
```
5. Confirm that traffic light detection works on real life images

Commit message:

Use OpenCV DNN API instead of keras-yolo3 conversion for traffic light detection

CarND-Capstone/README.md, after:

This is the project repo for the final project of the Udacity Self-Driving Car Nanodegree: Programming a Real Self-Driving Car. For more information about the project, see the project introduction [here](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/6047fe34-d93c-4f50-8336-b70ef10cb4b2/modules/e1a23b06-329a-4684-a717-ad476f0d8dff/lessons/462c933d-9f24-42d3-8bdc-a08a5fc866e4/concepts/5ab4b122-83e6-436d-850f-9f4d26627fd9).

### Traffic Light Detection

We used the following approach for Traffic Light Detection:
1. Download and install [Darknet](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/).
2. Download pre-trained YOLOv2 tiny model [weights](https://pjreddie.com/media/files/yolov2-tiny.weights) and [config](https://github.com/pjreddie/darknet/blob/master/cfg/yolov2-tiny.cfg). (Since YOLOv3 is not compatible with OpenCV 3.3.1 used in ROS Kinetic, we chose to use YOLOv2.)
3. YOLO detects 80 classes by default. Follow instructions [here](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet/tree/47c7af1cea5bbdedf1184963355e6418cb8b1b4f#how-to-train-tiny-yolo-to-detect-your-custom-objects) to edit config file, create classes file (traffic_lights-obj.names), metadata file (traffic_lights.data) to adapt them to our need of detecting 3 classes (red, yello, green lights).
4. Collect training image data from simulator and actual test track by installing and using ROS package `image_view`, as follows:

`apt-get install -y ros-kinetic-image-view`

`rosrun image_view image_saver image:=/image_color`

and

`rosbag play -l ../data/traffic_light_training.bag`

`rosrun image_view image_saver image:=/image_raw _filename_format:="tlt%04i.%s" _sec_per_frame:=0.2`

5. Select training images - roughly equal number of red, yellow, green, and unknown/no light scenarios, and label them using a labeling tool. We used [labelImg](https://github.com/tzutalin/labelImg).
6. Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/AlexeyAB/darknet/tree/47c7af1cea5bbdedf1184963355e6418cb8b1b4f#how-to-train-tiny-yolo-to-detect-your-custom-objects) to start training a classifier for traffic light detection.
7. Stop training when the average loss (error) is less than 0.5.
8. Update tl_classifier.py to use the weights along with OpenCV API to predict traffic lights with states.. Ensure appropriate weights file is used for simulator vs. site case.

## Installation

Please use **one** of the two installation options, either native **or** docker installation.

### Native Installation

* Be sure that your workstation is running Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial Xerus or Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahir. [Ubuntu downloads can be found here](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop).
* If using a Virtual Machine to install Ubuntu, use the following configuration as minimum:
  * 2 CPU
  * 2 GB system memory
  * 25 GB of free hard drive space

  The Udacity provided virtual machine has ROS and Dataspeed DBW already installed, so you can skip the next two steps if you are using this.

* Follow these instructions to install ROS
  * [ROS Kinetic](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation/Ubuntu) if you have Ubuntu 16.04.
  * [ROS Indigo](http://wiki.ros.org/indigo/Installation/Ubuntu) if you have Ubuntu 14.04.
* [Dataspeed DBW](https://bitbucket.org/DataspeedInc/dbw_mkz_ros)
  * Use this option to install the SDK on a workstation that already has ROS installed: [One Line SDK Install (binary)](https://bitbucket.org/DataspeedInc/dbw_mkz_ros/src/81e63fcc335d7b64139d7482017d6a97b405e250/ROS_SETUP.md?fileviewer=file-view-default)
* Download the [Udacity Simulator](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Capstone/releases).

### Docker Installation
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/)

Build the docker container
```bash
docker build . -t capstone
```

Run the docker file
```bash
docker run -p 4567:4567 -v $PWD:/capstone -v /tmp/log:/root/.ros/ --rm -it capstone
```

### Port Forwarding
To set up port forwarding, please refer to the [instructions from term 2](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/0949fca6-b379-42af-a919-ee50aa304e6a/lessons/f758c44c-5e40-4e01-93b5-1a82aa4e044f/concepts/16cf4a78-4fc7-49e1-8621-3450ca938b77)

### Usage

1. Clone the project repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Capstone.git
```

2. Install python dependencies
```bash
cd CarND-Capstone
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Make and run styx
```bash
cd ros
catkin_make
source devel/setup.sh
roslaunch launch/styx.launch
```
4. Run the simulator

### Real world testing
1. Download [training bag](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-selfdrivingcar/traffic_light_bag_file.zip) that was recorded on the Udacity self-driving car.
2. Unzip the file
```bash
unzip traffic_light_bag_file.zip
```
3. Play the bag file
```bash
rosbag play -l traffic_light_bag_file/traffic_light_training.bag
```
4. Launch your project in site mode
```bash
cd CarND-Capstone/ros
roslaunch launch/site.launch
```
5. Confirm that traffic light detection works on real life images
